Some rules about naming

These are recommendations, not a requirements.


Short names are better than long names
  6 characters or less is ideal.

The names in the FQUID are not for human consumption.

But they get read by humans trying to track down problems.

On naming trunks and main branches short names are better because
    they minimize the length of the prefix of a FQUID:
  us:ca:co:smcgov		County
  us:ca:co:smcgov:ci:csm	City
  us:ca:co:smcgov:smccd		Community College

Long names are OK when you get to the leaves of the tree




Existing naming standards are better than new naming standards.

The existing "colloquial" standards are the names that the staff knows.
They are generally short, 6 chars or less.

They may not be perfect.  They are easier to defend:
  "I know it is stupid, but everybody knows it."




There can be a disconnect between human readable name and index numbers.
  California schools are identified by a CCDDDDDSSSSSSS which is:
    2 digit county, 5 digit district, 7 digit school CDE ??? ID.
  District and school names are typically human readable.

How do we integrate these two?




It is recommended that in a parent name space "parent:"

And child name spaces "child:"

That uniqueness be preserved in both parent and child namespaces:

Rules of thumb:
  parent:foo	OK
  parent:child:bar	OK
  parent:child:foo	BAD

This can be recursive to grand children

If there is a naming conflict think of adding a prefix to both names.




Who "gets" the popular name?
My rule of thumb is:
The first one wins.
If you claim (and use) the name first, it is yours.

Caveat:
We are gentle people.
  As Dear Abby might say: "It is rude to insist on your own way."

If someone else wants the name and they have a good reason to want it; give it to them.

A city or non-profit claims a name and a state agency prototypes a plan to use the name, it only makes sense to give the state the name.

The need of the many, who know the name as a state agency, out weigh the needs of the few, who are the city or non-profit.

