https://healthy.kaiserpermanente.org/health/mycare/consumer/ancillary/!ut/p/a1/hY9LD8FAFIV_i0WXci8VqrsSj6pHhWjNRkYNJqbTZtyI_ntVESuc3ck9X849wCAGpvlNnjjJTHP19Ky9G05Wi16v4eGi1XXQn_XHfX8eYCmIYALspLJ9Fd6eiXLXQguTTJPQZIQ-CCOMhcBIHiCOwtB1p9vxYDTrrOJ_SEJFLiCW-piZ9PPT7xrN05K5ShK76nynfwh_1XCdSKW4KcpVrBqOtr-sho_CNqLvBOtg0w1sxOY78EUeQp46ha1uUxHVL0uvVnsADolbMA!!/dl5/d5/L2dBISEvZ0FBIS9nQSEh/

Facility physical accessibility survey
photo of a pepper

We make our facilities and services accessible to individuals with disabilities, in compliance with the federal and state laws that prohibit discrimination based on disability.

In addition, we conduct physical accessibility surveys at certain facilities as required by the California Department of Health Care Services (DHCS).  These surveys evaluate 6 areas of access: parking, building exterior, building interior, restrooms, exam rooms, and exam table/scale.

To help you understand how the survey determines if a facility is accessible for people with disabilities, the following are the levels of accessibility:

    Basic access: The facility demonstrates that it has met the standards for all 6 areas of physical accessibility surveyed (parking, outside building, inside building, restrooms, exam rooms, and exam table/scale).
    Limited access: The facility demonstrates that it has met the standards for some, but not all, of the 6 areas of physical accessibility surveyed.
    Medical equipment access: The facility demonstrates that patients with disabilities have access to height-adjustable exam tables and weight scales accessible to patients with wheelchairs and scooters.

Key to physical accessibility symbols

In the listings, facilities that have received a physical-accessibility survey will include symbols showing its accessibility under Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) guidelines.

E = exam room
The entrance to the exam room is accessible with a clear path. The doors open wide enough to accommodate a wheelchair or scooter and are easy to open. The exam room has enough room for a wheelchair or scooter to turn around.

EB = exterior (outside) building
Curb ramps and other ramps to the building are wide enough for a wheelchair or scooter. Handrails are provided on both sides of the ramp. There is an accessible entrance to the building. Doors open wide enough to let a wheelchair or scooter enter, and have handles that are easy to use.

IB = interior (inside) building
Doors open wide enough to let a wheelchair or scooter enter, and have handles that are easy to use. Interior ramps are wide enough and have handrails. Stairs, if available, have handrails. If there is an elevator, it is available for public use at all times when the building is open. The elevator has enough room for a wheelchair or scooter to turn around. If there is a platform lift, it can be used without help.

P = parking
Parking spaces, including spaces designated for vans, are accessible. Pathways have curb ramps between the parking lots, offices, and at drop-off locations.

R = restroom
The restroom is accessible, and the doors are wide enough to accommodate a wheelchair or scooter and are easy to open. The restroom has enough room for a wheelchair or scooter to turn around and close the door. There are grab bars that allow easy transfer from wheelchair to toilet. The sink is easy to get to and the faucets, soap, and toilet paper are easy to reach and use.

T = exam table or scale
The exam table moves up and down and the scale is accessible with handrails to assist people with wheelchairs and scooters. The weight scale is able to accommodate a wheelchair.
