Hi, I am Robert Harker.  I am one of the founders of the new San Mateo Code for America (CfA) Brigade, OpenSMC, opensmc.org, which meets every Tuesday in Red Wood City for a hacknight.

My background is web farm wrangler as a gray beard Linux/SunOS sysadmin.  Managing a farm of servers as a single entity using configuration management, automation and monitoring tools.  Not 50, 100, 500 individual servers but as a single large farm with a few different types/roles.  I have been the Ops side of DevOps for most of my 30+ yr career.  I became involved in Government Open Data last summer with the San Mateo County's Open Data portal, data.smcgov.org.

My interest in data is the back end indexing, storing and managing of the data.  Right now Open Data is like the old wild west which was a wasteland.  Small oasis separated by miles of desolate space.

The question I am trying to answer is "how do apps find ordinary, day to day information on an Open Data portal?  For an organization or location things like services provided, location address, lat/long, hours, homepage, phone, accessibility, parking, closest bus stop, etc...  What I call "base level data". 

Right now this information is locked in to a series of separate unrelated datasets.  siloed data.

I have my own CfA OpenSMC project I call openN11.  It is a universal service directory. So far it is a Solo project and mostly exploratory work on my part.  I have a lot of big ideas and a bunch of written notes:
  https://github.com/opensmc/smc-openN11

I have a mock-up dataset with "f-quids".
  https://data.smcgov.org/Government/RLH_open211/mg6f-byut
Go to row 230 for City of San Mateo data.

The important feature is the first column, the Fully Qualified UID or f-quid.  It is an index to locate different data types or data sources in an organized hierarchy.
Most of the data is from a GIS map layer.  What looked like the Rolodex for San Mateo County Human Services.  Eclectic.  I have added state/county/city information to create an f-quid index framework.

I have also been scraping data for San Mateo County and the state in general:
https://github.com/opensmc/smc-open211-data

I am working on a simple prototype API server / NoSQL json data store.  The problem is I need to learn Ruby first :-)  But I have written some working json/csv parsing code.

The OpenSMC brigade is working on an easy to modify service locator mobile app using the JavaScript Cordova framework.  This will be the pilot project for my open211 dataset.

My long term goal is to replace the database back-end of the mature CfA Ohana project.  My goal is to use its administrative console to allow various users/departments to manage their data.  Allow them to add new records, update records, add additional information.  The problem is Ohana is written in Ruby and I have to learn how to program in Ruby :-)  Yes, I have a bit of nerve.

I have come up with a quote that describes the problem I am trying to solve:

  "Applications should not require Google type intelligence
    to find the common day to day information (data) that they want to display."
    Robert Harker

Personal profile:
I am a Palo Alto native semi-retired in my late 50's.  I have seen the valley change from the "Valley of Hearts Delight" to the Silicon Valley.  I studied geology in college.  Specifically Faulting, Earthquakes and Geomorphology, the study of the landscape.  I spent my junior high school years learning about the baylands and marsh ecology.  I have a long term interest in Urban Planning starting with reading "Design with Nature" in the 6th grade and making a city of the future based on its principles.  I read the Palo Alto 1969 Master Plan where the City decided to keep the foothills as open space.  I am a local history buff.  Peninsula history, Bay Area history, California history.  I love it all.

I am a 2ed wave feminist.  I am concerned about the brogramer and gamergate culture in the tech industry.  I have seen too many women leave the industry because they get tired of waiting for the boys to grow into men.

I am at an interesting point in my life watching a younger generation assuming the roles I used to hold.  It is a good time to try a career change.  Government Open Data will be a major revolution in how government organizations work.  We are on the ground floor.

I am very pleased to see younger people, both women and men, contributing important work and interesting ideas to companies and organizations.  Taking on responsible leadership roles.
