Database Inclusion Policy
United Way of the Bay Area
211/HELPLINK



211/HELPLINK provides referral information to a broad range of health and human service providers.  After a thorough assessment, Call Specialists connect people with vital community resources in order to best meet their needs.  

211/HELPLINK maintains a comprehensive database of organizations in order to provide quality referral information.  We maintain information on organizations located in and/or serving Marin, Napa, San Francisco, Santa Cruz and Solano Counties and partners with another locally operated nonprofit  that provides updated data to 211/HELPLINK for organizations located in San Mateo County.  
The majority of the organizations in our database provide some type of direct health and human service.   We do not typically list neighborhood associations, service clubs or services currently listed by Specialized I&R’s.

CRITERIA FOR INCLUSION
I. 211/HELPLINK will include the following organizations in the database if they agree to review their database listings at least once a year and provide 211/HELPLINK with updates as changes occur:  
A.	Nonprofit (including 501(c)(3), 501(c)(6) tax-exempt organizations and 		 municipal, state and federal government agencies that provide social, educational , health or human services in Marin, Napa, San Francisco, Santa Cruz and Solano Counties. *Organizations located in San Mateo County are updated by our partner CIP.
	B.	Organizations (such as churches) that offer a service to the community at large, not just their own members. 

C.	Hospitals with 24-hour emergency rooms.

D.	Self-help groups that are not part of a larger agency, that do not charge a fee for service, are self governed and leadership in the group is one of the members’ responsibilities.  Professionals may act as resource persons to groups.

E.	Elected state and federal officials and representatives.

F.	Nonprofit 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organizations or municipal, state and federal government agencies outside the Bay Area that provide a service not available locally.

G.	Professional organizations and associations that may not be eligible for nonprofit 501(c)(3) tax-exempt status but maintain referrals that meet all state licensing requirements including (but not limited to) hospitals, home health care agencies, intermediate care homes, retirement homes and communities, independent living facilities, assisted living facilities, nursing homes, chemical dependency treatment programs, community counseling agencies and individual mental health professionals, legal professionals and medical professionals.


II.	The following organizations may be included in the database:

A.	Advocacy groups.

B.	Private organizations providing a service not adequately addressed by the nonprofit or governmental sectors.

C.	211/HELPLINK does not, as a general rule, list organizations whose primary mission is to assist or provide care for animals.  However these agencies will be considered for inclusion, if an agency offers a program which incorporates animals in meeting a specific human service need.  For example, an animal shelter that cares for pets while their owner is in a shelter, or an organization that boards horses and utilizes them as a therapeutic tool with at-risk youth.  

III.	The following organizations will not be included or may be removed in the database:
A. Organizations that deny service on the basis of color, race, religion, sexual orientation, ancestry or nationality or whose services are illegal.
B. When 211/HELPLINK knows or has reasonable basis to believe that services provided to clients are not in accordance with commonly accepted professional standards and practices. 

DISCLAIMER

A listing in the 211/HELPLINK database does NOT constitute endorsement of, or liability for, any organization’s programs or services.
211/HELPLINK does not guarantee client referrals to any organization listed in the database.  Organizations are completely and wholly responsible for screening clients for eligibility of services within their programs.
211/HELPLINK reserves the right to refuse listing of an agency if, in our sole opinion, such a listing is deemed inappropriate.
211/HELPLINK reserves the right to remove a listing when an organization no longer meets the required criteria.  Organizations not providing updated information as requested will be removed from the 2-1-1/HELPLINK database.
Information provided by organizations and individual service providers for inclusion in the 211/HELPLINK database may be made available to the general public in various formats, including telephone information and referral, directories, an online searchable database of services, printed materials and/or a volunteer recruitment database without prior notification to the organization.
Additional exceptions to these policies can be made for emergency services in the event of a disaster.

